
README for JSky Sources
=======================

This directory contains the sources, class and jar files and
documentation for the JSky package.

See http://archive.eso.org/JSky/ for a description of the plans for
JSky, or ftp://ftp.archive.eso.org/pub/jsky/README.html for download
information.

See the ChangeLog file for a list of recent changes.

Requirements
============

* JDK - Sun's Java Development Kit (1.4.0_01)
  [http://java.sun.com/]

* JAI - Sun's Java Advanced Imaging toolkit (JAI 1.1.1_01)
  [http://java.sun.com/products/java-media/jai]

The jar files for the following packages are also required and are
included in the JSky release (in the lib directory) for convenience.

* JFreeChart - an open-source class library for producing charts (v0.9.2)
  [http://www.object-refinery.com/jfreechart]

* Diva - Dynamic Interactive Visualization toolkit (patched, original version was: 28Jan02)
  (Used for interactive image graphics)
  [http://www.gigascale.org/diva/]

* JEL - Java Expression Language, a Java expression compiler (v0.95)
  (Used to evaluate catalog plot symbol expressions based on column values)
  [http://galaxy.fzu.cz/JEL/]

* FITS - Tom McGlynn's FITS I/O library (patched: original version was: v0.93)
  [http://heasarc.gsfc.nasa.gov/docs/heasarc/fits/java/v0.9]

* Dom4J - A Java XML API (1.3)
  [http://dom4j.org/]

* HCompress - Patrick Dowler's H-Compress package
  [http://cadcwww.hia.nrc.ca/software/hcompress/]

* Log4J - Message logging facility (v1.2.6)
  [http://jakarta.apache.org/log4j/docs/index.html]

For Windows NT/95/98/2000 systems only:

* Cygwin utilities (Needed for Makefiles and build scripts only)
  [http://sourceware.cygnus.com/cygwin/]

For information about any patches applied to the above packages, see
the email address at the end of this file.


Installation
============

The installation consists of unpacking the source jar file. Change to
the the directory where you want to install the JSky package and type:

   jar xvf jsky-*.src.jar

(Replace "*" with the JSky version number.)

Compiling the Sources
=====================

The JSky source release already contains the compiled class files and
jar files needed to run the JSky applications. If you make any changes
or wish to recompile for some reason, make sure the correct java and
javac versions are in your shell PATH. You can edit the conf/config.sh
file to change the classpath setting and conf/master.mk to change the
compiler flags and other settings.

NOTE: Windows/Cygwin users should edit conf/config.mk and set the
separator char (SEP) used for the classpath to ";".  The default is
set for UNIX (":").  Also be sure to set the environment variable
MAKE_MODE to "UNIX", which enables UNIX style path names with forward
slashes "/".


Applications
============

The main application class is JSkyCat, a java version of the Skycat
application.  You can start it as follows:

    java -jar lib/jsky.jar options...

Options:

    -internalframes - use a Windows style desktop with internal frames
    imageFileOrUrl  - display the given image file

Testing
=======

Many of the classes have a "main" method that tests the class.  The
Makefiles also have various "test*" targets that run the tests.  See
the Makefiles for details.

Documentation
=============

The javadoc documentation is included in the release file, but can
also be generated by typing:

    % make doc

in the top level directory. After this, point your web browser to the
jsky/doc/javadoc directory.

More documentation is planned for a future release.


Catalogs
========

The main catalog configuration file is now AstroCat.xml, which is
based on the XML DTD AstroCat.dtd. See the comments in those two
files, which can be found in the resources and resources/conf
directories, for details. The Skycat catalog config file (skycat.cfg)
is still read, if there is an entry for it in AstroCat.xml.

All of the catalog config files can be customized and saved in the
~/.jsky directory (C:/Documents and Settings/<username>/.jsky under
Windows 2000), since the software checks there first before using the
defaults from the resources directory.  If you change any of the
catalog related settings in the user interface, they will also be
saved in this directory.


Contact
=======

Please send any questions or comments to Allan Brighton at abrighton@gemini.edu.
